abbey - n. a monastery ruled by an abbot
abide - v. dwell; inhabit or live in
apology - n. an expression of regret at having caused trouble for someone
autonomous - j. existing as an independent entity
autonomy - n. immunity from arbitrary exercise of authority: political independence
avid - j. marked by active interest and enthusiasm
banal - j. repeated too often; over familiar through overuse
barring - n. the act of excluding someone by a negative vote or veto
bass - n. the lowest adult male singing voice
batter - n. a liquid or semiliquid mixture, as of flour, eggs, and milk, used in cooking
belle - n. a young woman who is the most charming and beautiful of several rivals
beneficial - j. promoting or enhancing well-being
bureaucracy - n. non elected government officials
butt - v. to strike, thrust or shove against
cabinet - n. persons appointed by a head of state to head executive departments of government and act as official advisers
caliber - n. a degree or grade of excellence or worth
coherent - j. marked by an orderly, logical, and aesthetically consistent relation of parts
coincidence - n. the temporal property of two things happening at the same time
collapse - v. break down, literally or metaphorically
colleague - n. an associate that one works with
collective - j. set up on the principle of collectivism or ownership and production by the workers involved usually under

the supervision of a government
cynical - j. believing the worst of human nature and motives; having a sneering disbelief in e.g. selflessness of others
cynicism - n. a cynical feeling of distrust
daring - n. the trait of being willing to undertake things that involve risk or danger
dominant - j. exercising influence or control
dominate - v. be in control
domination - n. social control by dominating
donate - v. give to a charity or good cause
donor - n. person who makes a gift of property
drastic - j. forceful and extreme and rigorous
drought - n. a shortage of rainfall
dubious - j. open to doubt or suspicion
dynamics - n. the branch of mechanics concerned with the forces that cause motions of bodies
earnest - j. characterized by a firm and humorless belief in the validity of your opinions
esquire - n. a title of respect for a member of the English gentry ranking just below a knight; placed after the name
external - j. happening or arising or located outside or beyond some limits or especially surface
extradition - n. the surrender of an accused or convicted person by one state or country to another (usually under the provisions of a statute or treaty)
extraordinary - j. beyond what is ordinary or usual; highly unusual or exceptional or remarkable
extravagant - j. unrestrained, especially with regard to feelings
exuberant - j. joyously unrestrained
fabulous - j. extremely pleasing
the mature animal
frantic - j. excessively agitated; distraught with fear or other violent emotion
fray - v. wear away by rubbing
frequency - n. the number of occurrences within a given time period
fringe - n. a social group holding marginal or extreme views
frivolous - j. not serious in content or attitude or behavior
frontier - n. a wilderness at the edge of a settled area of a country
fundamental - j. being or involving basic facts or principles
further - v. promote the growth of
futile - j. producing no result or effect
grotesque - j. distorted and unnatural in shape or size; abnormal and hideous
grove - n. a small growth of trees without underbrush
guise - n. an artful or simulated semblance
hack - n. a mediocre and disdained writer
hale - j. exhibiting or restored to vigorous good health
handwriting - n. something written by hand
harbor - v. hold back a thought or feeling about
hazard - n. a source of danger; a possibility of incurring loss or misfortune
heir - n. a person who is entitled by law or by the terms of a will to inherit the estate of another
heritage - n. practices that are handed down from the past by tradition
hilarious - j. marked by or causing boisterous merriment or convulsive laughter
hollow - j. not solid; having a space or gap or cavity
homage - n. respectful deference
hostility - n. violent action that is hostile and usually unprovoked
humane - j. marked or motivated by concern with the alleviation of suffering
hysteria - n. excessive or uncontrollable fear
icon - n. a conventional religious painting in oil on a small wooden panel; venerated in the Eastern Church
ideology - n. an orientation that characterizes the thinking of a group or nation
illusion - n. an erroneous mental representation
invoke - v. cite as an authority; resort to
involuntary - j. not subject to the control of the will
involve - v. engage as a participant
irony - n. incongruity between what might be expected and what actually occurs
irrational - j. not consistent with or using reason
irrelevant - j. having no bearing on or connection with the subject at issue
irresistible - j. impossible to resist; overpowering
irresponsible - j. showing lack of care for consequences
judgment - n. the capacity to assess situations or circumstances shrewdly and to draw sound conclusions
judicial - j. belonging or appropriate to the office of a judge
juicy - j. lucrative
junction - n. something that joins or connects
jurisdiction - n. (law) the right and power to interpret and apply the law
juror - n. someone who serves (or waits to be called to serve) on a jury
justification - n. something (such as a fact or circumstance) that shows an action to be reasonable or necessary
juvenile - j. of or relating to or characteristic of or appropriate for children or young people
ken - n. range of what one can know or understand
knit - n. needlework created by interlacing yarn in a series of connected loops using straight eyeless needles or by machine
lament - v. regret strongly
landmark - n. the position of a prominent or well-known object in a particular landscape
landscape - n. an expanse of scenery that can be seen in a single view
lapse - n. a break or intermission in the occurrence of something
laureate - n. someone honored for great achievements; figuratively someone crowned with a laurel wreath
lavish - j. very generous
lax - j. lacking in rigor or strictness
legacy - n. (law) a gift of personal property by will
lifelong - j. continuing through life
lovable - j. having characteristics that attract love or affection
lucrative - j. producing a sizeable profit
ludicrous - j. broadly or extravagantly humorous; resembling farce
lying - n. the deliberate act of deviating from the truth
machinery - n. machines or machine systems collectively
magnet - n. (physics) a device that attracts iron and produces a magnetic field
mentor - v. serve as a teacher or trusted counselor
metal - n. any of several chemical elements that are usually shiny solids
narrator - n. someone who tells a story
naturally - a. according to nature; by natural means; without artificial help
naval - j. connected with or belonging to or used in a navy
necessary - j. absolutely essential
necessity - n. anything indispensable
network - n. an interconnected system of things or people
neutral - j. having no personal preference
nevertheless - a. despite anything to the contrary (usually following a concession)
noisy - j. full of or characterized by loud and nonmusical sounds
nomination - n. the condition of having been proposed as a suitable candidate for appointment or election
nominee - n. a politician who is running for public office
norm - n. a standard or model or pattern regarded as typical
notorious - j. known widely and usually unfavorably
observatory - n. a building designed and equipped to observe astronomical phenomena
obsolete - j. no longer in use
obstruction - n. something that stands in the way and must be circumvented or surmounted
obtain - v. come into possession of
occasion - n. a vaguely specified social event
outrage - n. a feeling of righteous anger
outrageous - j. grossly offensive to decency or morality; causing horror
outright - a. without reservation or concealment
overhaul - v. make repairs, renovations, revisions or adjustments to
oversee - v. watch and direct
overthrow - n. the termination of a ruler or institution (especially by force)
overweight - n. the property of excessive fatness
pact - n. a written agreement between two states or sovereigns
pageant - n. a rich and spectacular ceremony
panic - n. an overwhelming feeling of fear and anxiety
pantheon - n. all the gods of a religion
paradox - n. (logic) a statement that contradicts itself
parallel - j. being everywhere equidistant and not intersecting
released by the court without imprisonment subject to conditions imposed by the court
qualify - v. make fit or prepared
quarterly - a. in three month intervals
radical - j. markedly new or introducing extreme change
resistant - j. impervious to being affected
resort - v. have recourse to
rural - j. living in or characteristic of farming or country life
rustic - j. characteristic of the fields or country
sacrifice - v. kill or destroy
superb - j. of surpassing excellence
systematic - j. characterized by order and planning
tactics - n. the branch of military science dealing with detailed maneuvers to achieve objectives set by strategy
tangible - j. perceptible by the senses especially the sense of touch
taxation - n. the imposition of taxes; the practice of the government in levying
trivial - j. of little substance or significance
truthful - j. expressing or given to expressing the truth
turmoil - n. a violent disturbance
ubiquitous - j. being present everywhere at once
urban - j. located in or characteristic of a city or city life
urgency - n. an urgent situation calling for prompt action
usage - n. the act of using
utility - n. the quality of being of practical use
vacuum - n. a region that is devoid of matter
valid - j. well grounded in logic or truth or having legal force
variation - n. an artifact that deviates from a norm or standard
volatile - j. liable to lead to sudden change or violence
vulnerable - j. capable of being wounded or hurt
warrant - v. stand behind and guarantee the quality, accuracy, or condition of
wherever - a. where in the world
wholly - a. to a complete degree or to the full or entire extent ('whole' is often used informally for 'wholly')
woo - v. seek someone's favor
zeal - n. excessive fervor to do something or accomplish some end